With indexedDB,
we can also create indexes, okay?
So what's the idea of an index?
No one asked so far, but
I already mentioned that on data stores,
we don't have schemas.
So you can't say that objects in
this object store will have a name,
a last name, email, and phone number.
You cannot say that as a schema,
but you can create indexes.
When you create an index,
it will have a name and a property name.
And when you create an index,
you're kind of forcing each object in
that object store to have that property.
But have in mind that every
time you create an index,
you're also making your object store
bigger and larger as with any database.
And also,
it will make such operations faster, but
every time you store new data,
that operation will be slower, okay?
The same as with indexes or
indices on every database.
And you gonna specify if
that index is unique or not,
so you can create like secondary keys,
okay, so
that's what you have,
okay, yes, assumption.
And you create an index where after you
create the objectStore most of the time,
it makes sense?
And then, you have transactions also from
indexes like get all from that index or
get from index to get only one.
So this is like aware in SQL query.
So I wanna get users or
customers with name Anna, how to do that?
Well, you need to create an index on
the name and then you use get from index,
the index name, Anna, and that will give
you all the objects with Anna as the name.
Make sense?
So it's tricky when you're coming
from SQL databases to make
complex queries with indexed.db.
That's why a lot of people still
like web SQL because you can
do inner joins, where our group by, yeah,
we can get really complex queries
with just one string, okay?
And the complexity happens in
native code that we don't care.
Well, in the indexed.db,
you cannot do that, so complex scenarios.
So that's why you can still on top of
indexed.db run a SQL-based library, okay?
Make sense?
Cool.
So now, to see another example
on indexed.db that we're
going to make is to make
our menu available offline.
So right now, there is a menu,
the menu is coming from this json,
menu.json.
That's the menu that is currently being
rendered in the home page of our PWA.
But if we don't have connection, we won't
get the json and we won't see anything.
So what if instead of downloading
the data and rendering the data,
we download the data, we fill our
database, and then we render the database.
To make another example on
indexed.db that is not so
simple as the one we saw before, okay?
Make sense?
So for those of of you follow along
the project, we are here now.
Let's back here in databases,
creating a database for the menu.
Okay, so in this case,
we will start working with menu.js.
Okay, so I'm going to open menu.js.
This is the object that works with this.
And the first part is also
to open a database, okay?
So I'm going to create
an OpenDB async function.
In case we need to open a database from
many places, I don't think we need that,
but anyway, it's a good idea, okay?
It's going to be similar
to what we did before.
So we need to access IDB, the IDB library.
And from the IDB library, we're going to
open a database with a name,
cm menu, okay,
menu storage, it's up to you, okay?
It's a good idea to prefix this,
remember that, right, not mandatory.
So coffee master menu for
example, version 1, and
then an object with an upgrade
function that receives the DVD.
That's kind of what you always write.
And here,
what you do is to create the object store.
And here, if you look at the JSON,
I'm going to make,
let's say, version 1 of this example and
later for homework,
you have the additional exercise,
so make version 2.
On version 1, you will see that this
JSON is not actually a table it
has a complex structure.
So it's an array of categories,
like hot coffee and tea and
food, snacks, and
also each category has products.
But because it is an object-based
database and not a table-based database,
we are not forced to create
two tables like categories and
products, we don't need the two,
we can store an array directly
into the object store.
So we're going to make a database
version 1 of categories,
and we are going to specify the key path.
We are going to use the name as the key
path, so that will be the key, the name of
the category, that is a property,
the property name, okay, that property.
Make sense?
So that's the schema that we have here.
We can also create an index on products
if we want to force products to be there,
but yeah, I don't think we need that.